# Battle Under Ground (aka TwinShooterTwo)
This repository contains all the gooey bits one needs to build Twin Stick Shooter for the itch.io Game Off 2021... eventually renamed to Battle Under Ground. I've started work on several twin-stick shooters over the years, but they've never progressed very far. Motivated by a Game Jam deadline, this one *will* be completed... depending on how you define completed ;-)
Battle Under Ground (B.U.G.) hits Game Off 2021's theme of *bug* in the most general way possible. You're, wait for it, **B**attling **U**nder **G**round (yes, underground is usually one word, just go with me here).  That means darkness. Lucky for you, you have a nice flashlight! Unlucky for you, that means you're *bugging* entities that don't like light. You're gonna pay for that...

I've participated in several 48-hour game jams over the years, but never anything as lengthy as the Game Off. When it was all said and done, I pretty much was only able to put in the same amount of time I'd put into a 48-hour jam... just spread over 30 days. It was nice to be able to spread out that development time.

This is my first entry into an itch.io Game Off. It turned out to be a fun little solo project to work on. While I've made my share of Unity games, this go-round, I wanted to force myself to use some new (to me) Unity features: The New Input System and 2D lighting. The result is Battle Under Ground. It's a simple "shoot (or run away) from all the things" kind of game with procedurally generated levels. Technically, it supports local multiplayer, but no real effort was put into balancing the game (or tweaking the tech) in that regard. For example, I'm doing nothing to prevent players from going all Leroy Jenkins and running their avatar out of the camera's viewbox. I may delve further into those types of things at a future date. But, most likely, I'll just take what I've learned from this effort and apply the good parts to my next game programming adventure.

Being a programmer by trade, you'd think my code quality would be decent... turns out, you'd be (mostly) wrong. Like all of my game jam games, I always start out with the best intentions to follow decent development standards, but, by the end of the jam, "hacking stuff" always ends up trumping writing "good" code.  That's why, if you look at my code, you'll see all sorts of fun static variables, singletons, inconsistent messaging methods, etc. There's some decent stuff buried in there, but most of it could probably be used as examples of what *not* to do in your codebase. Being a programmer also means that art and audio always leave a bit to be desired. Nonetheless, I've done what I can given the time I had and the abilities that I possess.

Ultimately, for me, these jams are all about having fun. Often, fun results in ugly innards, but hopefully a decent enough game.

Have fun playing!
